I'm Alan whiting from outback travel
Australia combo you
and this is Kia's Sportage Platinum
diesel Edition it's got plenty of grunt
let's see how it goes
potage is an absolute pocket rocket this
is the 2-liter diesel
it's got nearly as much ground as that
Nissen June with the more practical
interior the suspensions nicely firm for
Meacham and handling
absolutely flora
electric steering feels
breaks up excellent see the
adjustability is good the supports not
bad but there with a bit more shoulder
support
vision beautiful mirrors are good how
much to complain about at all
considering there's a 2-liter turbo
diesel
just a meter away from drivers ear the
noise levels are very good
small tires love smooth dirt as well
it's very very responsive slight bit of
turbo lag it very foot but you can
always play the gearshift
however doesn't like big bumps
the sport tires you've certainly bitumen
and dirt road capable give it a whirl
now on our little test track the
Sportage feels quite at home on this
rapid-fire trail doesn't have a lot of
ground clearance at the front so where
the rats are deep you need to straddle
them won't go where a high ground
clearance four-wheel drive
where our rocky trail climb will lock up
the four-wheel drive system so we get
50/50 talk front and rear
supporters like CR Hill traction
controls working nicely be better with
Bush tires that had a bit better grip
but for road tires at Road pressures
this is quite capable
the hill descent control isn't really
set for this stuff
wheel brakes as well
the mapping is worth having this is a
fire trail but it's clearly marked with
some offshoots as well this is the heart
of the matter there's an east-west
mounted two liter turbocharged
common-rail diesel which puts out a
hundred and thirty five kilowatts and
392 Newton meters of torque that's
plenty of grunt to pull a camper trailer
and it's rated to tow 1,600 kilos it all
hides under this cover that's easy to
remove the cargo area is generous and
can be extended of course and the seats
fold forward unfortunately they don't
fold flat and the spare wheel well is
cavernous there's plenty of room for
tools recovery gear anything you don't
want to share and it has a proper road
wheel with a proper road tire no
temporary rubbish there's also a power
point to run a fridge or whatever and
some light duty tie-downs the reversing
camera is very handy because the back
window is quite small
the Kia Sportage is an excellent around
town and country touring vehicle it's
limited a little by having a 58 litre
tank and it's not the most frugal diesel
engine we've averaged 8.5 liters per
hundred K and some of the Euro diesels
do a fair bit better than that but it'll
tow a camper trailer with ease it's got
plenty of grunt and it's quite capable
on moderate fire trails nice machine